new MOLT Replicator metrics page (#21600)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/molt/replicator-metrics.md

- `pglogical_dial_failure_total`
	- Description: Number of times Replicator failed to start logical replication (failure to execute `START_REPLICATION` command).
	- Interpretation: Nonzero values indicate connection issues. Check network connectivity and source database health.
- `mutations_total`
	- Description: Total number of mutations processed, labeled by source and mutation type (insert/update/delete).
    - Interpretation: Use to monitor replication throughput and identify traffic patterns.
</section>

### Staging

[Staging](#replication-pipeline) metrics track the health of the staging layer where mutations are buffered for ordered processing.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For checkpoint terminology, refer to the [MOLT Replicator documentation]({% link molt/molt-replicator.md %}#terminology).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- `stage_commit_lag_seconds`
	- Description: Time between writing a mutation to source and writing it to staging.
	- Interpretation: High values indicate delays in getting data into the staging layer.
- `stage_mutations_total`
	- Description: Number of mutations staged for each table. 
    - Interpretation: Use to monitor staging throughput per table.

> - `stage_duration_seconds`

Reviewer: @crash-overdrive , I was trying to search up `stage_duration_seconds` inside of the Replicator Metrics doc and can't seem to find it.

<img width="847" height="493" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e4e91495-0508-4b84-9b1d-96dd3a08e2e4" />

Reviewer 2: The section exists now! Was in my notes but not in the main metric docs. Updated the main metric docs with relevant info.

> - `stage_duration_seconds`

Reviewer 2: The section exists now! Was in my notes but not in the main metric docs. Updated the main metric docs with relevant info.

## Metrics endpoints

The following endpoints are available when you [enable Replicator metrics](#set-up-metrics):

|     Endpoint    |                                Description                                 |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/_/varz`       | Prometheus metrics endpoint.                                               |
| `/_/diag`       | Structured diagnostic information (JSON).                                  |
| `/_/healthz`    | Health check endpoint.                                                     |
| `/debug/pprof/` | Go pprof handlers for profiling.                                           |

For example, to view the current snapshot of Replicator metrics on port `30005`, open `http://localhost:30005/_/varz` in a browser. To track metrics over time and create visualizations, use Prometheus and Grafana as described in [Set up metrics](#set-up-metrics).

To check Replicator health:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl http://localhost:30005/_/healthz
~~~

~~~
OK
~~~

### Visualize metrics

> Use the [Replicator Grafana dashboard](https://replicator.cockroachdb.com/replicator_grafana_dashboard.json) to visualize metrics. For Oracle sources, also import the [Oracle Grafana dashboard](https://replicator.cockroachdb.com/replicator_oracle_grafana_dashboard.json) to visualize [Oracle source metrics](#oracle-source).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="postgres mysql cockroachdb">
Use the [Replicator Grafana dashboard](https://replicator.cockroachdb.com/replicator_grafana_dashboard.json) to visualize metrics.
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="oracle">
Use the [Replicator Grafana dashboard](https://replicator.cockroachdb.com/replicator_grafana_dashboard.json) to visualize metrics. For Oracle sources, also import the [Oracle Grafana dashboard](https://replicator.cockroachdb.com/replicator_oracle_grafana_dashboard.json) to visualize [Oracle source metrics](#oracle-source).
</section>
```

- `checkpoint_proposed_age_seconds`
	- Description: Age of the proposed checkpoint.
	- Interpretation: A gap with `checkpoint_committed_age_seconds` indicates checkpoint commit lag.
- `checkpoint_commit_duration_seconds`
	- Description: Amount of time taken to save the committed checkpoint to the staging database.
	- Interpretation: High values indicate staging database bottlenecks due to write contention or performance issues.
- `checkpoint_proposed_going_backwards_errors_total`
	- Description: Number of times an error condition occurred where the changefeed was restarted.
	- Interpretation: Indicates source changefeed restart or time regression. Requires immediate investigation of source changefeed stability.
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="oracle">
#### Oracle source

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
To visualize the following metrics, import the [Oracle Grafana dashboard](https://replicator.cockroachdb.com/replicator_oracle_grafana_dashboard.json).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- `oraclelogminer_scn_interval_size`
	- Description: Size of the interval from the start SCN to the current Oracle SCN.

> 	- Interpretation: Values larger than the [`--scnWindowSize`]({% link molt/replicator-flags.md %}#scn) flag value indicate replication lag, or that replication is idle.

Author: @crash-overdrive @ryanluu12345 Is the proper flag name `--scnWindowSize` or `--scn`?

> 	- Interpretation: Values larger than the [`--scnWindowSize`]({% link molt/replicator-flags.md %}#scn) flag value indicate replication lag, or that replication is idle.

Reviewer: From what I can tell: `scnWindowSize`. It should go to `scnWindowSize` actually
```
f.IntVar(&c.SCNWindowSize, "scnWindowSize", defaultSCNWindowSize, fmt.Sprintf("the max size of SCN bounds of a pull iteration from logminer, defaults to %d", defaultSCNWindowSize))
```

> 	- Interpretation: Values larger than the [`--scnWindowSize`]({% link molt/replicator-flags.md %}#scn) flag value indicate replication lag, or that replication is idle.

Reviewer 2: we have both these flags!
--scn: starting SCN for LogMiner (transactions committed before this won’t be applied).
--scnWindowSize: caps the SCN span per LogMiner pull iteration (helps avoid querying too large an SCN range).

    - Interpretation: Use to monitor staging throughput per table.
- `stage_duration_seconds`
	- Description: Amount of time taken to successfully stage mutations.
	- Interpretation: High values indicate write performance issues on the staging database.
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="postgres oracle cockroachdb">
### Core sequencer

[Core sequencer](#replication-pipeline) metrics track mutation processing, ordering, and transaction coordination.

- `core_sweep_duration_seconds`
	- Description: Duration of each schema sweep operation, which looks for and applies staged mutations.
	- Interpretation: Long durations indicate that large backlogs, slow staging reads, or slow target writes are affecting throughput.
- `core_sweep_mutations_applied_total`
	- Description: Total count of mutations read from staging and successfully applied to the target database during a sweep.
	- Interpretation: Use to monitor processing throughput. A flat line indicates no mutations are being applied.
- `core_sweep_success_timestamp_seconds`
	- Description: Wall time (Unix timestamp) at which a sweep attempt last succeeded.

> 	- Interpretation: Stale values indicate the sweep has stopped.

Reviewer 3: I was not sure what "Stale" meant.

```suggestion
	- Interpretation: If this value stops updating and becomes stale, it indicates that the sweep has stopped.
```

- `core_parallelism_utilization_percent`
	- Description: Percentage of the configured parallelism that is actively being used for concurrent transaction processing.
    - Interpretation: High utilization indicates bottlenecks in mutation processing.
</section>

### Target apply

[Target apply](#replication-pipeline) metrics track mutation application to the target database.

- `target_apply_queue_size`
	- Description: Number of transactions waiting in the target apply queue.
	- Interpretation: High values indicate target apply cannot keep up with incoming transactions.
- `target_apply_queue_utilization_percent`
	- Description: Percentage of apply queue capacity utilization.

> 	- Interpretation: Values above 90 percent indicate severe backpressure. Increase [`--targetApplyQueueSize`]({% link molt/replicator-flags.md %}#target-apply-queue-size) or investigate target database performance.

Author: @crash-overdrive @ryanluu12345 Florence raised a really good point -- does the `--targetApplyQueueSize` only apply to CRDB and PG sources? If so, I need to clarify here.

> 	- Interpretation: Values above 90 percent indicate severe backpressure. Increase [`--targetApplyQueueSize`]({% link molt/replicator-flags.md %}#target-apply-queue-size) or investigate target database performance.

Reviewer 2: Its only PG and Oracle. CRDB supports it too (with pebble stager) but we dont expose pebble stager publicly as of yet. So for now lets just mention PG and Oracle @taroface !

> 	- Interpretation: Values above 90 percent indicate severe backpressure. Increase [`--targetApplyQueueSize`]({% link molt/replicator-flags.md %}#target-apply-queue-size) or investigate target database performance.

Reviewer: Good catch Shashwat! That's an oversight on my end, my mistake! Sorry @taroface
